# Changesets

Hello and welcome! This folder has been automatically generated by `@changesets/cli`, a build tool that works
with multi-package repos, or single-package repos to help you version and publish your code. You can
find the full documentation for it [in our repository](https://github.com/changesets/changesets)

We have a quick list of common questions to get you started engaging with this project in
[our documentation](https://github.com/changesets/changesets/blob/main/docs/common-questions.md)

## Common commands

### Adding changesets
`npx changeset`

> Note: You can run changeset add to add a changeset if you want to, but running Changesets without any command works as well.

### Versioning and publishing
Once you decide you want to do a release, you can run

`npx changeset version`

This consumes all changesets, and updates to the most appropriate semver version based on those changesets. It also writes changelog entries for each consumed changeset.

We recommend at this step reviewing both the changelog entries and the version changes for packages. Once you are confident that these are correct, and have made any necessary tweaks to changelogs, you can publish your packages:

`npx changeset publish`

This will run npm publish in each package that is of a later version than the one currently listed on npm.

### Command line options

https://github.com/changesets/changesets/blob/main/docs/command-line-options.md

The command line for changesets is the main way of interacting with it. There are 4 main commands. If you are looking for how we recommend you setup and manage changesets with the commands, check out our [intro to using changesets](./intro-to-using-changesets.md)

- init
- add [--empty][--open]
- version [--ignore, --snapshot]
- publish [--otp=code, --tag]
- status [--since=master --verbose --output=JSON_FILE.json]
- pre [exit|enter {tag}]
- tag

## What is a changeset?

A changeset is a piece of information about changes made in a branch or commit. It holds three bits of information:

- What we need to release
- What version we are releasing packages at (using a [semver bump type](https://semver.org/))
- A changelog entry for the released packages

## I am in a multi-package repository (a mono-repo)

1. Run the command line script `npx changeset` or `yarn changeset`.
2. Select the packages you want to include in the changeset using <kbd>↑</kbd> and <kbd>↓</kbd> to navigate to packages, and <kbd>space</kbd> to select a package. Hit enter when all desired packages are selected.
3. You will be prompted to select a bump type for each selected package. Select an appropriate bump type for the changes made. See [here](https://semver.org/) for information on semver versioning
4. Your final prompt will be to provide a message to go alongside the changeset. This will be written into the changelog when the next release occurs.

After this, a new changeset will be added which is a markdown file with YAML front matter.

```
-| .changeset/
-|-| UNIQUE_ID.md
```

The message you typed can be found in the markdown file. If you want to expand on it, you can write as much markdown as you want, which will all be added to the changelog on publish. If you want to add more packages or change the bump types of any packages, that's also fine.

While not every changeset is going to need a huge amount of detail, a good idea of what should be in a changeset is:

- WHAT the change is
- WHY the change was made
- HOW a consumer should update their code

5. Once you are happy with the changeset, commit the file to your branch.

## I am in a single-package repository

1. Run the command line script `npx changeset` or `yarn changeset`.
2. Select an appropriate bump type for the changes made. See [here](https://semver.org/) for information on semver versioning
3. Your final prompt will be to provide a message to go alongside the changeset. This will be written into the changelog when the next release occurs.

After this, a new changeset will be added which is a markdown file with YAML front matter.

```
-| .changeset/
-|-| UNIQUE_ID.md
```

The message you typed can be found in the markdown file. If you want to expand on it, you can write as much markdown as you want, which will all be added to the changelog on publish. If you want to change the bump type for the changeset, that's also fine.

While not every changeset is going to need a huge amount of detail, a good idea of what should be in a changeset is:

- WHAT the change is
- WHY the change was made
- HOW a consumer should update their code

4. Once you are happy with the changeset, commit the file to your branch.

## Tips on adding changesets

### You can add more than one changeset to a pull request

Changesets are designed to stack, so there's no problem with adding multiple. You might want to add more than one changeset when:

- You want to release multiple packages with different changelog entries
- You have made multiple changes to a package that should each be called out separately

## I want to know more about changesets

[here is a more in-depth explanation](https://github.com/changesets/changesets/blob/main/docs/detailed-explanation.md)
